Audio is stored in many ways, and there usually is a tradeoff between audio size and quality. Uncompressed audio provides the highest quality by directly using measures air pressure to represent sound waves. For music specifically, the MIDI (Musical Instrument Digital Interface) file format can represent audio much more efficiently by storing played notes only as events with instrument, pitch, etc. information. The simplicity of MIDI has enabled recurrent neural networks (RNNs), a form of machine learning, to generate music in MIDI. However, MIDI playback loses many nuances of music, such as the release of a note. Currently, single notes can be generated with accurate timbre and other characteristics (such as release) using generative adversarial networks (GANs), but combinations of notes with these accuracies cannot. This research focuses on using machine learning to generate music in the form of uncompressed audio instead of MIDI to increase quality. Using the short-term Fourier transform (STFT), audio of music is first transformed into a log-mel spectrogram, a plot of phase and magnitude values over frequency and time dimensions. Then, a GAN is trained to generate small sections of spectrogram narrow in the time dimension, similar in idea to the notes already able to be generated. From the generator in the GAN, dense encodings of audio snippets from a piece of music (similar to MIDI) can be found. A RNN is then trained to generate these dense encodings of audio similar to generating a MIDI, which are in turn converted into uncompressed audio of the generated piece of music. The advantage of using a GAN for encoding the musical information is that instead of using a predetermined set of flags modifying a note as with MIDI, a machine learning model can learn the best ways to capture most if not all information that a single note might contain. Currently, a GAN is in the process of being trained to generate single notes on a tensor processing unit (TPU), an accelerator specialized for machine learning. The GAN is being trained on single notes to test the effectiveness of TPUs on training GANs in particular, which should, in the future, increase the speed of training for the planned GAN and RNN models.
